# Bullet-proofing: Patterns & Practices for survivable advanced functions and scripts.

We will start with a pair of related scripts and put them together into a module - discussing what our options are, and the motivation for each change, we'll improve the functions by actually applying a list of best practices and code snippets including:

- the help you can't not write
- picking good parameter names
- validating input values
- outputting objects that are predictable and identifiable
- binding parameters from the pipeline
- why to avoid a single InputObject
- finding work that can go outside the process block
- outputting errors that are unrecoverable
- recovering from errors when possible

At the end of our time you'll have a series of reproducible steps, and a few code snippets and the knowledge to apply them to make your functions and even your modules more robust and more intuitive for users.

I'll introduce attributes including [CmdletBinding()], [Parameter()] and [OutputType()] and we'll go over the difference between Write-Error and throw (and maybe even $PSCmdlet.WriteError()) and talk briefly about the difference between a PSCustomObject with PSTypeNames and an object with a PowerShell class (and how to write parameters that accept both).

# An Introduction

This talk is on writing survivable code, which to me means three things:

1. Designing up front. Writing commands which make sense and work together
2. Handling errors and exceptions
3. Logging what you can't handle

I want to be clear about one thing: I can promise you, up front, that not all of my own code is bullet-proof.

The truth is that in my public code, I only rarely write things that really **need** to be bullet-proof, and as a result, if you look me up on github, you're not going to find all of these exception handling and logging practices followed. That tends to be a side-effect of writing modules for colors and prompts, where errors are unlikely, and not critical in any case. ;)

To be clear: at work, it's quite different -- we write deployment scripts which frequently have to handle errors, and always have to be much more vigilant about logging than what I do on github.

## Let's start by talking about design, which is my favorite part

In fact, I just want to remind you (although I'm not going to get into it), an important part of design is thinking about how your command will be used, so it's a good idea to write some help first, and then some tests, before you ever start implementing anything.