# Naming Conventions

Obviously when we talk about naming conventions, we're talkgin about what you name your command, it's parameters, and also the variables you use in it -- but I think parameters are the ones we need to focus on. With variables, naming isn't as important (since only maintainers care), and the fact is that most developers already spend time thinking about their command names, because the limited set of approved verbs, and mandate to use singular nouns forces the issue.

Command names matter for discoverability, but the truth is, parameter names may be **the most important part** of your programming interface, because they are affect _usability_ in several ways. Specifically, they affect your user's ability to figure out what to pass, and getting their names _and attributes_ right affects your users ability to pipeline input to your function.

## What makes a good parameter name?

    It's a good name if users can tell what you want!

    Specifically, if users can tell what information they need to pass to each parameter --and what form the data should take-- without reading the help.

    Sometimes, one of these goals will make others impossible. That's ok. Prioritize. But also remember that you _can_ use aliases to meet your goals. In any case, there are a few things which help your parameters be easier to understand. They should be:

- Recognizable and Specific

    `$FirstName` or `$FullName` would be better than `$Name`

- Implicitly Typed

    Remember that we want users to know what they can pass without reading the help.

    - `$FilePath` is better than `$File` or `$Path`
    - `$TimoutSeconds` is better than `$Timeout`

- Distinct

    Consider what happens if I use PSReadLine's `Ctrl+Space` to list parameters.

    Although multiple parameters that accept similar information in different ways might be desireable for flexibility, it can confuse users even if you put them in parameter sets.

    Ideally, each parameter would start with a different letter, and be a unique way to pass a specific piece of information.

    For example, use `$Credential` alone, rather than having _both_ `$Credential` and `$UserName` and `$Password`. It limits the way a user can invoke your command (and might force them to manually create a credential on a separate line), but it's dramatically clearer what a user needs to do when there's only one representation.

- Match properties on output types

    If you're passing through some of the input as properties on the output, consider what the property names will be when naming your parameters. Sometimes it's worth breaking all the other rules in order to match up with the property on an output type you don't control.

- Match properties on pipeline input types

    In order to set parameters using the properties of pipeline input objects, you need to match the property name. You can use aliases to do this, but it's a lot easier for users to follow if the names match up exactly...